[MTM-56477] User documentation for time series migration process (#2478)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/enterprise-tenant/time-series-migration-support-bundle/time-series-migration.md

---
weight: 20
title: Time series migration
layout: redirect
---

The administrator user can trigger the migration to time series collection via user interface of a plugin <provide the name of the plugin>, which is installed in the Administration application by default. Optionally, the plugin can be installed in other applications on {{< management-tenant >}} or {{< enterprise-tenant >}}.

> The plugin provides an opportunity to migrate to time series collection for the current ({{< management-tenant >}} or {{< enterprise-tenant >}}) and for the list of subtenants, where you can select a specific tenant for the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tenant administrator user can schedule his tenant or any subtenant for migration to time series collection.  The controls for doing so available in **Administration** application and subscribed by default.

{{<c8y-admon-req>}}
Application access:
* Users must have access to the Administration application.
* Users must have timeseries-microservice subscribed to tenant

The user must have following permissions "Tenant management":
* To view all tenants: READ permission.
* To create tenants and perform activity permitted by UPDATE permission: ADMIN permission.
{{</c8y-admon-req>}}
```

### To trigger time series migration {#to-trigger-time-series-migration}

To start the tenant migration follow the steps below:

> 1. Navigate to **Migration > Time series** in the application where the plugin is installed (Administration by default).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Migration > Time series** in the application where the plugin is installed. By default this is the Administration application.
```

2. Select the tenant you want to trigger the migration for from the list of available tenants.
3. Hover over the row of the tenant in the tenant list, then click **Add to queue** and confirm the operation. The tenant migration status should be updated to **Queued**.
4. When the migration process is triggered its status for the tenant should changed from **Queued** to **In progress**.
After the data is processed, verified and migrated to the new collection, confirm progress and click **Approve and finish migration**.

> 5. A confirmation pop-up will inform the user that the new format for time series measurements is going to be used after confirming the data migration process, after 7 days legacy collection will be removed and the action of approval is irreversable. Click **Confirm** to proceed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. A confirmation pop-up informs you that the new format for time series measurements is going to be used after confirming the data migration process, after seven days the legacy collection will be removed and the action of approval is irreversible. Click **Confirm** to proceed.
```

> 1. Navigate to **Migration > Time series** in the application where the plugin is installed (Administration by default).
> 2. Select the tenant you want to trigger the migration for from the list of available tenants.
> 3. Hover over the row of the tenant in the tenant list, then click **Add to queue** and confirm the operation. The tenant migration status should be updated to **Queued**.
> 4. When the migration process is triggered its status for the tenant should changed from **Queued** to **In progress**.
> After the data is processed, verified and migrated to the new collection, confirm progress and click **Approve and finish migration**.
> 5. A confirmation pop-up will inform the user that the new format for time series measurements is going to be used after confirming the data migration process, after 7 days legacy collection will be removed and the action of approval is irreversable. Click **Confirm** to proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Migration > Time series** in the Administration application.
2. Select the tenant you want to trigger the migration for from the list of available tenants.
3. Hover over the row of the tenant in the tenant list, then click **Add to queue** and confirm the operation. The tenant migration status should be updated to **Queued**.
4. Migration will start automatically after some time. There are several stages visible for migration during that process:
- IN PROGRESS - microservice currently performing data migration
- MIGRATED - microservice finished data migration and waiting for next stage to start.
- VERIFYING - microservice performs checks to confirm the correctness of data migration performed.
- VERIFIED - microservce successfully finished checking the data correctness. This stage requires confirmation from user.
- FAILED - microservice was not able to successfully finish one of the above steps. If such situation occurs, contact support.
5. Assuming everything went well and current state is VERIFIED, a confirmation pop-up will inform the user that the new format for time series measurements is going to be used upon confirmation of **Approve** action. 
{{<c8y-admon-important>}}
Legacy measurements collection is to be removed after 7 days upon Approval. This operation is irreversible. During that period of time legacy collection remains up to date. In case of any issue related to measurements data, contact support.
{{<./c8y-admon-important>}}
```

Reviewer 3: instead I've added suggested table of migration states as a separate part

6. Accepting the confirmation pop-up changes the status of the migration to **Approved**.

> 7. After seven days, the legacy measurements collection will be deleted and the migration status will be changed to **Completed**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. After seven days, the legacy measurements collection is deleted and the migration status is changed to **Completed**.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> Migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if you will not approve the migration manually, the migration stays in the status **Verified**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if you do not approve the migration manually, the migration stays in the status **Verified**.
```

> {{< c8y-admon-info >}}
> Migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if you will not approve the migration manually, the migration stays in the status **Verified**.
> {{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Reviewer: Seems to be redundant. Might be good to include an image https://drive.google.com/open?id=1fpGvOLXyfskThlcsiSl5EoSsEbUjd5dz&usp=drive_copy and explain states. Maybe something like this:
```suggestion
### Migration states
|State|Managable by user|Description|
|Legacy measurements|yes|state which indicates that tenant is not being migrated yet. In case if tenant is using legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration. In case if tenant already using time series, it will be marked correctly and settings verified when scheduled.|
|Queued|yes|state which indicates that tenant is being added to the migration queue. Such tenant is available to be picked up by migration service to perform the activity. It is possible from this state to **Cancel migration**.|
|In progress|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is currently in progress.|
|Migrated|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is done.|
|Verifying|no| The state indicates that verification of migrated data is in progress.|
|Verified|yes| The state indicates that all migration processes are finished and user approval is required to acknowledge it|
|Completed|no|The state indicates that migration finished and service is waiting for customer feedback for next 7 days before legacy collection is removed|
|Done|no|The state indicates that all process related to migration approval completed and tenant is fully migrated|
|Failed|no| The state indicates that an error occurred during migration process. The information provided in error message should be forwarded together with support ticket|
```

Reviewer 3: added

> ### Progress monitoring {#progress-monitoring}

Reviewer: We need to describe here about 2 main components that we have and answer following questions:
- What is the structure of the page and common actions available on that page (eg. refresh button)?
- What the purpose of tenants list component?
- What is displayed in tenants list component?
- What this component allows user to do?
- What is the purpose of current migration component?
- What is displayed on this component?
- What this component allows user to do?

> When a migration is being executed, you can monitor its progress in the **Ongoing migration** section. Here, you can see: what tenant is being migrated, what time range of data will be migrated, who started the migration. On the right side, you can see the percentage indicator showing how much data has already been migrated to the new collection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a migration is being executed, you can monitor its progress in the **Ongoing migration** section. Here, you can see: 
* What tenant is being migrated, 
* What time range of data will be migrated, and
* Who started the migration. 

On the right side, you can see the percentage indicator showing how much data has already been migrated to the new collection.
```

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}

> You can add more than one tenant into the migration queue, but migration will be executed only for one tenant at a time. It means that we won't start the migration of the next tenant in the queue, until you approve the previously migrated tenant to transition from **Verified** to **Complete** status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add more than one tenant into the migration queue, but migration is executed only for one tenant at a time. It means that the migration of the next tenant in the queue will not start until you approve the previously migrated tenant to transition from **Verified** to **Complete** status.
```

5. A confirmation pop-up informs user about:
* the new format for time series measurements, which is going to be used after confirming the data migration process.
* after seven days the legacy collection is removed.
* the action of approval is irreversible. 
If the user agreeds with the progress of the process **Confirm** button should be clicked.
Accepting the confirmation pop-up changes the status of the migration to **Approved**.
6. After seven days, the legacy measurements collection is going to be deleted and the migration status will change to **Completed**.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if the user do not approve the migration manually when it's in the **Verified** state the migration progress stops.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### Migration states {#migration-states}

> |State|Managable by user|Description|
> |Legacy measurements|yes|state which indicates that tenant is not being migrated yet. In case if tenant is using legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|
> |Queued|yes|state which indicates that tenant is being added to the migration queue. Such tenant is available to be picked up by migration service to perform the activity. It is possible to **Cancel migration** from this state.|
> |In progress|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is currently in progress.|
> |Migrated|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is done.|
> |Verifying|no| The state indicates that verification of migrated data is in progress.|
> |Verified|yes| The state indicates that all migration processes are finished and user approval is required to acknowledge it|
> |Completed|no|The state indicates that migration finished and legacy collection is going to be removed within next 7 days|
> |Failed|no| The state indicates that an error occurred during migration process. The information provided in error message should be forwarded together with support ticket|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|State|Managable by user|Description|
|:-----|:-----|:------|
|Legacy measurements|yes|state which indicates that tenant is not being migrated yet. In case if tenant is using legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|
|Queued|yes|state which indicates that tenant is being added to the migration queue. Such tenant is available to be picked up by migration service to perform the activity. It is possible to **Cancel migration** from this state.|
|In progress|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is currently in progress.|
|Migrated|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is done.|
|Verifying|no| The state indicates that verification of migrated data is in progress.|
|Verified|yes| The state indicates that all migration processes are finished and user approval is required to acknowledge it.|
|Completed|no|The state indicates that migration finished and legacy collection is going to be removed within next 7 days.|
|Failed|no| The state indicates that an error occurred during migration process. The information provided in error message should be forwarded together with support ticket.|
```

### Description and progress monitoring {#description-and-progress-monitoring}

**Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.

> The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and represents data of selected tenant with enabled ongoing migration. This section is designed for monitoring the progress and controlling the process by user by interacting with buttons, which context and availability differs from the tenant's migration status. Section is populated with the information only after the migration is started and is in the **In progress** state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.
The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and displays current state of ongoing migration for respective tenant. This section provides controls over active process. The information is displayed only after the migration is started and is in one of the progressing states (eg.: In progress, Migrated, Verifying, Verified).
```

---
weight: 20
title: Time series migration
layout: redirect
---

> Tenant administrator user can schedule his tenant or any subtenant for time series collection migration. To have functionality available tenant should be subscribed to **Timeseries-migration** microservice and **c8y-timeseries-migration-plugin** extension should be subscribed for custom application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tenant administrator user can schedule his tenant or any subtenant for time series collection migration. Time series format of measurements will bring following benefits:
* better performance for measurements queries;
* less storage consumption.

There are also certain limitations induced on API and are described within [Enhanced time series support](#enhanced-time-series-support) section of current documentation
```

{{<c8y-admon-req>}}
The user must have following permissions for "Tenant management":
* To view all tenants: READ permission.
* To perform migration activity: ADMIN permission.

> {{</c8y-admon-req>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<c8y-admon-req>}}
To have functionality available tenant should be subscribed to **Timeseries-migration** microservice.
Administration application should have subscribed extension **c8y-timeseries-migration-plugin**.

The user must have following permissions for "Tenant management":
* To view all tenants: READ permission.
* To perform migration activity: ADMIN permission.
{{</c8y-admon-req>}}
```

|Failed|no| The state indicates that an error occurred during migration process. The information provided in error message should be forwarded together with support ticket.|

### Description and progress monitoring {#description-and-progress-monitoring}

**Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.
The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and represents data of selected tenant with enabled ongoing migration. This section is designed for monitoring the progress and controlling the process by user by interacting with buttons, which context and availability differs from the tenant's migration status. Section is populated with the information only after the migration is started and is in the **In progress** state.

Here, you can see: 
* **Tenant** field with tenant name which idicates the tenant the migration process is triggered for.
* **Requested by** field shows the user name who started the migration. 
* **Migration range** expose date range, where start date is the date of the oldest measuremet to migrate and end date is the date of the newest measurement (it's also the point in time when migration was started).

> *  Loader bar on the right side consists of status (visual progress in percentage indicating how much data has already been migrated to the new collection), state (visual presentation of current state) and buttons for the user to interact with the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following information can be read from the view:
* **Tenant** - value of tenant name for which process is running.
* **Requested by** - name of the tenant and user which queued the process.
* **Migration range** - date of the oldest measurement to migrate and date of the newest measurement. Upon start of the migration process (Starting from **In Progress** state) date of the newest measurement also becomes the date of migration start. Upon start of the migration data is written using both new and old format. 
*  **Migration status** - bar displayed on the right is multipurpose. Depending on state it provides either visual information on the actual state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. Among the process states worth to mention following:
- **In Progress** - the state which provides information on current migration progress represented in percentage. Provides information on how many measurements were migrated comparing to total measurements to migrate deducted based on **Migration range** value.
- **Verifying** - the state which indicates that there is an ongoing check on migrated data correctness.
- **Verified** - the state indicating that automatic process done. Requires user to acknowledge performed migration by clicking respective control displayed.
```

Reviewer 3: I think adding information about statuses here is redundant, because we describe it in the statuses part

Under the **Ongoing migration** section is located **Tenants** list, second part of the **Time series migration** page.
This area displays a list of subtenants in the table grid with more detail information about each subtenant and it's current migration status.

> In this section user can select the tenant to enable migration for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of tenants below provides overview of overall migration state of the system. It displays information about current tenant and all the subtenants.
```

Here, you can see: 
* **Tenant** field with tenant name.
* **ID** field shows the tenant ID. 
* **Domain** field shows tenant domain.
* **Parent tenant ID** field shows tenant ID of the parent of the tenant. 

> * **Status** field shows current state for each tenant from the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each tenant following information is displayed: 
* **Tenant** - value of tenant id.
* **ID** - value of tenant id. 
* **Domain** - value of tenant domain.
* **Parent tenant ID** - value of parent tenant id. 
* **Status** - current state of migration for given tenant.
* **RequestedDate** - date when tenant being added to queue for migration.
* **RequestedBy** - tenant id and tenant user which requested migration
* **ApprovedDate** - date when migration being approved by administrator.
* **ApprovedBy** - tenant id and tenant name of the user which approved the migration.
```

After hoverover on the tenant row user can see one of three buttons according to migration state to controll the flow:
* **Add to queue** if tenant has **Legacy measurement** state.
* **Cancel migration** if tenant is in **Queued** state.

> * **Approve and finish migration** if the tenant has **Verified** state and progress is parked until the user approve the continuation of the migration flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on current state of migration for given tenant, following controls may be displayed when hovering over with mouse cursor:
* **Add to queue** - when in **Legacy measurement** state to sign tenant to migration queue.
* **Cancel migration**  - when in **Queued** state to resign tenant from migration queue. Note that when progress starts, it is not possible to resign from migration.
* **Approve and finish migration** - when in **Verified** state the button is displayed to approve the migration. Note that no other migration will start if there is a tenant pending acceptance.
```

> The same buttons are available on loader bar in **Ongoing migration** section except **Add to queue**, adding a new tenant to the migration queue is possible only from tenant list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 3: I would leave the info about **Add to queue** button

---
weight: 20
title: Time series migration
layout: redirect
---

> Tenant administrator user can schedule his tenant or any subtenant for time series collection migration. To have functionality available tenant should be subscribed to **Timeseries-migration** microservice and **c8y-timeseries-migration-plugin** extension should be subscribed for custom application. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Tenant administrator users can schedule their tenant or any subtenant for time series collection migration. The time series format of measurements brings the following benefits:

* better performance for measurements queries,
* less storage consumption.

Note that certain limitations are induced in the API which are described in [Enhanced time series support](#enhanced-time-series-support).
```

{{<c8y-admon-req>}}
The user must have following permissions for "Tenant management":
* To view all tenants: READ permission.
* To perform migration activity: ADMIN permission.
{{</c8y-admon-req>}}

### To trigger time series migration {#to-trigger-time-series-migration}

To start the tenant migration follow the steps below:

1. Navigate to **Migration > Time series** in the application where the plugin is installed. By default this is the Administration application.
2. Select the tenant you want to trigger the migration for from the list of available tenants.
3. Hover over the row of the tenant in the tenant list, then click **Add to queue** and confirm the operation. The tenant migration status should be updated to **Queued**, which means that tenant is added into the migration queue.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}

> You can add more than one tenant into the migration queue, but migration is executed only for one tenant at a time. It means that the migration of the next tenant in the queue will not start until you approve the previously migrated tenant to transition from **Verified** to **Complete** status.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can add more than one tenant into the migration queue, but the migration is executed only for one tenant at a time. The migration of the next tenant in the queue will not start until you approve the previously migrated tenant to transition from **Verified** to **Complete** status.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

> 4. When the migration process is triggered its status for the tenant should be changed from **Queued** to **In progress**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. When the migration process is triggered its status for the tenant changes from **Queued** to **In progress**.
```

> After the data is processed, verified and migrated to the new collection status of migration should be updated to **Verified** and **Approve and finish migration** button should be visible in 2 parts of the page in **Ongoing migration** section and in tenant list section after hoveover the tenant row. So now the user can confirm progress and click the button **Approve and finish migration**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After the data is processed, verified and migrated to the new collection the status of the migration changes to **Verified** and the **Approve and finish migration** button is visible in the **Ongoing migration** section and in the tenant list on hovering over the tenant row. Click **Approve and finish migration** to confirm the process.
```

> 5. A confirmation pop-up informs user about:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. A confirmation pop-up shows up providing the following information:
```

> * the new format for time series measurements, which is going to be used after confirming the data migration process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The new format for time series measurements, which is used after confirming the data migration process.
```

> * after seven days the legacy collection is removed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* That after seven days the legacy collection is removed.
```

> * the action of approval is irreversible. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* That the action of approval is irreversible. 
```

> If the user agreeds with the progress of the process **Confirm** button should be clicked.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Click **Confirm**. This will change the status of the migration to **Approved**.
```

> Accepting the confirmation pop-up changes the status of the migration to **Approved**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> 6. After seven days, the legacy measurements collection is going to be deleted and the migration status will change to **Completed**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. After seven days the legacy measurements collection is deleted and the migration status changes to **Completed**.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if the user do not approve the migration manually when it's in the **Verified** state the migration progress stops.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if the user does not approve the migration manually when it's in the **Verified** state the migration progress stops.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### Migration states {#migration-states}
|State|Managable by user|Description|
|:-----|:-----|:------|

> |Legacy measurements|yes|state which indicates that tenant is not being migrated yet. In case if tenant is using legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Legacy measurements|yes|Indicates that the tenant is not being migrated yet. If the tenant uses legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|
```

> |Queued|yes|state which indicates that tenant is being added to the migration queue. Such tenant is available to be picked up by migration service to perform the activity. It is possible to **Cancel migration** from this state.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Queued|yes|Indicates that the tenant is added to the migration queue. Tenants in this state can be picked up for migration. It is possible to **Cancel migration** from this state.|
```

> |In progress|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is currently in progress.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|In progress|no| Indicates that the migration of the measurements collection is currently in progress.|
```

> |Migrated|no| The state indicates that migration of measurements collection is done.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Migrated|no| Indicates that the migration of the measurements collection is done.|
```

> |Verifying|no| The state indicates that verification of migrated data is in progress.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Verifying|no| Indicates that the verification of the migrated data is in progress.|
```

> |Verified|yes| The state indicates that all migration processes are finished and user approval is required to acknowledge it.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Verified|yes| Indicates that all migration processes are completed and user approval is required.|
```

> |Completed|no|The state indicates that migration finished and legacy collection is going to be removed within next 7 days.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Completed|no|Indicates that the migration is completed and the legacy collection is removed in 7 days.|
```

> |Failed|no| The state indicates that an error occurred during migration process. The information provided in error message should be forwarded together with support ticket.|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|Failed|no| Indicates that an error occurred during the migration process. The information provided in the error message should be forwarded together with the support ticket.|
```

---
weight: 20
title: Time series migration
layout: redirect
---

Tenant administrator users can schedule their tenant or any subtenant for time series collection migration. The time series format of measurements brings the following benefits:

* better performance for measurements queries,
* less storage consumption.

Note that certain limitations are induced in the API which are described in [Enhanced time series support](#enhanced-time-series-support).

{{<c8y-admon-req>}}

> To have functionality available tenant should be subscribed to **Timeseries-migration** microservice.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To have this functionality available the tenant must be subscribed to the Timeseries-migration microservice.
```

> Administration application should have subscribed extension **c8y-timeseries-migration-plugin**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Administration application must have subscribed the extension c8y-timeseries-migration-plugin.
```

> The user must have following permissions for "Tenant management":

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The user must have the following permissions for the permission type "Tenant management":
```

- To view all tenants: READ permission.
- To perform migration activity: ADMIN permission.
  {{</c8y-admon-req>}}

### To trigger time series migration {#to-trigger-time-series-migration}

To start the tenant migration follow the steps below:

1. Navigate to **Migration > Time series** in the application where the plugin is installed. By default this is the Administration application.
2. Select the tenant you want to trigger the migration for from the list of available tenants.
3. Hover over the row of the tenant in the tenant list, then click **Add to queue** and confirm the operation. The tenant migration status should be updated to **Queued**, which means that tenant is added into the migration queue.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}

> You can add more than one tenant into the migration queue, but the migration is executed only for one tenant at a time. The migration of the next tenant in the queue will not start until you approve the previously migrated tenant to transition from **Verified** to **Complete** status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add more than one tenant into the migration queue, but the migration is executed only for one tenant at a time. The migration of the next tenant in the queue will not start until you approve the previously migrated tenant.
```
Let's not mention states here, since we consider `Approved` state among those that unlock further migrations.

{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

4. When the migration process is triggered its status for the tenant changes from **Queued** to **In progress**.
After the data is processed, verified and migrated to the new collection the status of the migration changes to **Verified** and the **Approve and finish migration** button is visible in the **Ongoing migration** section and in the tenant list on hovering over the tenant row. Click **Approve and finish migration** to confirm the process.
5. A confirmation pop-up shows up providing the following information:
* The new format for time series measurements, which is used after confirming the data migration process.
* That after seven days the legacy collection is removed.
* That the action of approval is irreversible. 

> Click **Confirm**. This will change the status of the migration to **Approved**.

Reviewer: Wondering if it is good to mention in documentation what is displayed within such a pop-up. Since pop-up itself is some kind of form of dynamic documentation that is displayed within the application. Maybe:

```suggestion
5. A confirmation pop-up shows up providing with important information related to migration and should be acknowledged by click on **Confirm** button. 
```

Reviewer 3: so you wanted me to add this info, hence I've added. Let's leave it as it is

Reviewer 5: @iiar-c8y, the goal here is to prepare user what to expect at the later stages, before they schedule a migration.

6. After seven days the legacy measurements collection is deleted and the migration status changes to **Completed**.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped. However, if the user does not approve the migration manually when it's in the **Verified** state the migration progress stops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped until it reaches **Verified** state,  where waits for user feedback.
```

|State|Managable by user|Description|
|:-----|:-----|:------|
|Legacy measurements|yes|Indicates that the tenant is not being migrated yet. If the tenant uses legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|
|Queued|yes|Indicates that the tenant is added to the migration queue. Tenants in this state can be picked up for migration. It is possible to **Cancel migration** from this state.|
|In progress|no| Indicates that the migration of the measurements collection is currently in progress.|
|Migrated|no| Indicates that the migration of the measurements collection is done.|
|Verifying|no| Indicates that the verification of the migrated data is in progress.|
|Verified|yes| Indicates that all migration processes are completed and user approval is required.|
|Completed|no|Indicates that the migration is completed and the legacy collection is removed in 7 days.|
|Failed|no| Indicates that an error occurred during the migration process. The information provided in the error message should be forwarded together with the support ticket.|

### Description and progress monitoring {#description-and-progress-monitoring}

**Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.

> The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and displays current state of ongoing migration for respective tenant. This section provides controls over active process. The information is displayed only after the migration is started and is in one of the progressing states (eg.: In progress, Migrated, Verifying, Verified).

Reviewer 5: These are not examples, it's the full list, right?
```suggestion
The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and displays current state of ongoing migration for respective tenant. This section provides controls over active process. The information is displayed only after the migration is started and is in one of the progressing states (In progress, Migrated, Verifying, Verified).
```

> Here, you can see:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here you can see the following information:
```

> - **Tenant** field with tenant name which idicates the tenant the migration process is triggered for.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Tenant** - Tenant name of the tenant the migration process is triggered for.
```

> - **Requested by** field shows the user name who started the migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Requested by** - Name of the user that started the migration.
```

- **Migration range** expose date range, where start date is the date of the oldest measuremet to migrate and end date is the date of the newest measurement (it's also the point in time when migration was started).
  **Migration status** - bar displayed on the right is multipurpose. Depending on state it provides either visual information on the actual state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](/#migration-states).

> For each tenant following information is displayed: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For each tenant the following information is displayed:
 
```

Reviewer 4: I wonder if the explanations are of any additional value. If you want to keep them, please follow this notation:

ID - Tenant ID.
Domain - Tenant domain.

* **Tenant** - value of tenant id.
* **ID** - value of tenant id. 
* **Domain** - value of tenant domain.
* **Parent tenant ID** - value of parent tenant id. 
* **Status** - current state of migration for given tenant.
* **RequestedDate** - date when tenant being added to queue for migration.
* **RequestedBy** - tenant id and tenant user which requested migration
* **ApprovedDate** - date when migration being approved by administrator.

> * **ApprovedBy** - tenant id and tenant name of the user which approved the migration.

Reviewer 5: Why do we spell these like technical names? What are/will be the actual labels displayed to users?

Reviewer: indeed, proposal would be to change it to something like:

```suggestion
* **Requested date** - date when tenant being added to queue for migration.
* **Requested by** - tenant id and tenant user which requested migration
* **Approved date** - date when migration being approved by administrator.
* **Approved by** - tenant id and tenant name of the user which approved the migration.
```

Or wait for https://cumulocity.atlassian.net/browse/MTM-61358 to be sure on the naming.

> After hoverover on the tenant row user can see one of three buttons according to migration state to controll the flow:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
On hovering over a tenant row, you can see one of three buttons according to migration state to control the flow:
```

---
weight: 20
title: Time series migration
layout: redirect
---

Tenant administrator users can schedule their tenant or any subtenant for time series collection migration. The time series format of measurements brings the following benefits:

* better performance for measurements queries,
* less storage consumption.

Note that certain limitations are induced in the API which are described in [Enhanced time series support](#enhanced-time-series-support).

{{<c8y-admon-req>}}
To have this functionality available the tenant must be subscribed to the Timeseries-migration microservice.
The Administration application must have subscribed the extension c8y-timeseries-migration-plugin.

The user must have the following permissions for the permission type "Tenant management":

> - To view all tenants: READ permission.

Reviewer 5: In our case, maybe: 
```suggestion
- To view migration status for all subtenants: READ permission.
```
(in case of enterprise tenant, we're not talking about all tenants in general)

{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

4. When the migration process is triggered its status for the tenant changes from **Queued** to **In progress**.
After the data is processed, verified and migrated to the new collection the status of the migration changes to **Verified** and the **Approve and finish migration** button is visible in the **Ongoing migration** section and in the tenant list on hovering over the tenant row. Click **Approve and finish migration** to confirm the process.
5. A confirmation pop-up shows up providing the following information:
* The new format for time series measurements, which is used after confirming the data migration process.
* That after seven days the legacy collection is removed.
* That the action of approval is irreversible. 
Click **Confirm**. This will change the status of the migration to **Approved**.
6. After seven days the legacy measurements collection is deleted and the migration status changes to **Completed**.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped until it reaches **Verified** state,  where waits for user feedback.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The migration of measurements can be cancelled when a tenant has the status **Queued**. After the status is changed to **In progress**, the process can no longer be stopped until it reaches **Verified** state and waits for user confirmation.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### Migration states {#migration-states}

> |State|Managable by user|Description|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|Status|Manageable by user|Description|
```

|:-----|:-----|:------|

> |Legacy measurements|yes|Indicates that the tenant is not being migrated yet. If the tenant uses legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|

Reviewer 5: "is not being migrated" (continuous) means it's not being actively migrated at the moment, while you mean it's not been migrated yet.
```suggestion
|Legacy measurements|yes|Indicates that the tenant has not been migrated yet. If the tenant uses legacy measurements, it will be scheduled for migration.|
```
What does the second sentence mean? Did you mean that if the tenant has not been migrated but uses time series from the start, then it won't be scheduled for migration, even if user tries to schedule it? Or that if such a tenant is scheduled, then migration will be immediate, as in the tenant will just switch to Done?

Reviewer 3: I guess we need to ask @iiar-c8y  what he ment, because initally it was his comment to add this part

|Queued|yes|Indicates that the tenant is added to the migration queue. Tenants in this state can be picked up for migration. It is possible to **Cancel migration** from this state.|
|In progress|no| Indicates that the migration of the measurements collection is currently in progress.|
|Migrated|no| Indicates that the migration of the measurements collection is done.|
|Verifying|no| Indicates that the verification of the migrated data is in progress.|
|Verified|yes| Indicates that all migration processes are completed and user approval is required.|

> |Completed|no|Indicates that the migration is completed and the legacy collection is removed in 7 days.|

Reviewer 5: Are we not missing `Approved` state?
```suggestion
|Approved|no|Indicates that the migration is completed and the legacy collection will be removed in 7 days.|
|Completed|no|Indicates that the migration is completed and the legacy collection is removed.|
```

|Failed|no| Indicates that an error occurred during the migration process. The information provided in the error message should be forwarded together with the support ticket.|

### Description and progress monitoring {#description-and-progress-monitoring}

> **Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The **Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.
```

> **Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.

Reviewer 4: What is the name of the second section?

> The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and displays current state of ongoing migration for respective tenant. This section provides controls over active process. The information is displayed only after the migration is started and is in one of the progressing states (In progress, Migrated, Verifying, Verified).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and displays the current state of the ongoing migration for the respective tenant. This section provides control over the active process. The information is displayed only after the migration has started and is in one of the progressing states (In progress, Migrated, Verifying, Verified).
```

Here you can see the following information:

- **Tenant** - Tenant name of the tenant the migration process is triggered for.
- **Requested by** - Name of the user that started the migration.

> - **Migration range** expose date range, where start date is the date of the oldest measuremet to migrate and end date is the date of the newest measurement (it's also the point in time when migration was started).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Migration range** - Date range. Start date is the date of the oldest measurement to be migrated and end date is the date of the newest measurement. This is also the point in time when the migration has started.
```

>   **Migration status** - bar displayed on the right is multipurpose. Depending on state it provides either visual information on the actual state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](/#migration-states).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  **Migration status** - This bar displayed at the right has various functions. Depending on the state it provides either visual information on the actual state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](/#migration-states).
```

>   **Migration status** - This bar displayed at the right has various functions. Depending on the state it provides either visual information on the actual state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](/#migration-states).

Reviewer 5: Probably meant "current", not "actual" (as in "actual" vs. "expected"):
```suggestion
  **Migration status** - This bar displayed at the right has various functions. Depending on the state it provides either visual information on the current state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](/#migration-states).
```

For each tenant the following information is displayed:
 

> * **Tenant** - tenant name.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Tenant** - Tenant name.
```

> * **ID** - tenant id. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **ID** - Tenant ID. 
```

> * **Domain** - tenant domain.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Domain** - Tenant domain.
```

> * **Parent tenant ID** - parent tenant id. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Parent tenant ID** - Parent tenant ID. 
```

> * **Status** - current state of migration for given tenant.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Status** - Current migration state for the given tenant.
```

> * **Requested date** - date when tenant being added to queue for migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Requested date** - Date when the tenant will be added to the queue for migration.
```

> * **Requested date** - Date when the tenant will be added to the queue for migration.

Reviewer 5: It's displayed only after tenant is added to the queue, right?
```suggestion
* **Requested date** - Date when the tenant was added to the queue for migration.
```

> * **Requested by** - tenant id and tenant user which requested migration

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Requested by** - Tenant ID and tenant user requesting the migration.
```

> * **Requested by** - Tenant ID and tenant user requesting the migration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Requested by** - Tenant ID and name of the user who requested the migration.
```

> * **Approved date** - date when migration being approved by administrator.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Approved date** - Date when the migration has been approved by the administrator.
```

> * **Approved date** - Date when the migration has been approved by the administrator.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Approved date** - Date when the migration was approved by the administrator.
```

> * **Approved by** - tenant id and tenant name of the user which approved the migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Approved by** - Tenant ID and tenant name of the user which approved the migration.
```

> * **Approved by** - Tenant ID and tenant name of the user which approved the migration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Approved by** - Tenant ID and name of the user who approved the migration.
```

Reviewer: We need to apply this change before the merge.

Reviewer: just noticed that it's there already.

> On hovering over a tenant row, you can see one of three buttons according to migration state to control the flow:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
On hovering over a tenant row, you can see one of the following buttons according to the migration state:
```

> - **Add to queue** - To assign the tenant to the migration queue when it is in **Legacy measurement** state

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Add to queue** - To assign the tenant to the migration queue when it is in **Legacy measurement** state.
```

> - **Add to queue** - To assign the tenant to the migration queue when it is in **Legacy measurement** state.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Add to queue** - To assign the tenant to the migration queue when it is in **Legacy measurements** state.
```

> - **Cancel migration** - To resign tenant from migration queue when it is in **Queued** state. Note that when progress starts, it is not possible to resign from migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Cancel migration** - To remove the tenant from the migration queue when it is in **Queued** state. Note that when the progress has started, it is not possible to resign from migration.
```

> - **Cancel migration** - To remove the tenant from the migration queue when it is in **Queued** state. Note that when the progress has started, it is not possible to resign from migration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Cancel migration** - To remove the tenant from the migration queue when it is in **Queued** state. Note that if the progress has already started, it is not possible to resign from migration.
```

|Completed|no|Indicates that the migration is completed and the legacy collection is removed.|
|Failed|no| Indicates that an error occurred during the migration process. The information provided in the error message should be forwarded together with the support ticket.|

### Description and progress monitoring {#description-and-progress-monitoring}

The **Time series migration** page is divided into 2 sections.
The top one is called **Ongoing migration** and displays the current state of the ongoing migration for the respective tenant. This section provides control over the active process. The information is displayed only after the migration has started and is in one of the progressing states (In progress, Migrated, Verifying, Verified).

Here you can see the following information:

- **Tenant** - Tenant name of the tenant the migration process is triggered for.
- **Requested by** - Name of the user that started the migration.
- **Migration range** - Date range. Start date is the date of the oldest measurement to be migrated and end date is the date of the newest measurement. This is also the point in time when the migration has started.

>   **Migration status** - This bar displayed at the right has various functions. Depending on the state it provides either visual information on the current state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](/#migration-states).

Reviewer: use relative link when referencing other section of docs (eg. don't start with `/`) 
```suggestion
  **Migration status** - This bar displayed at the right has various functions. Depending on the state it provides either visual information on the current state of the ongoing process or allows to control certain process states. For details of states, see [Migration states](#migration-states).
```
